*******API Testing - Step By Step********

# What is API ?
API meaning Application Programming Interface. API is a combination of a set of routines, protocols, and supporting tools used in the background to create a connection between your application UI and the backend server to exchange information. 

# What is the difference between an API ,  Web Service and a Microservices? 

## Web Service
A web service is a type of API that is going to run over the internet or web. 

All web services are APIs, but all APIs are not web services. 

## Micro Service 
Microsoft Service is a tiny API that is going to be used in the application to communicate and share the information between different components of the application. 

## What is API testing? Why is it important? 
API testing is a type of software testing technique that involves testing APIs directly without using application UI. 

## Benefits of API Testing ?

1. Early issue detection 
2. Faster execution compared to UI 
3. Completely independent from the UI changes. Completely independent from the UI changes 
4. Broader test coverage compared to UI Broader test coverage compared to UI. 
5. API testing is automation-friendly, always. 

## As there are multiple benefits, so only API testing is enough to release the product ?
NO

## Popular API Architectures ?

## SOAP
## REST
## GRAPHQL

## SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)
SOAP services mainly rely on XML format to provide messaging services. Each SOAP service is mainly used for a POST request to send the information and receive the information. 

POST /webservice HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: text/xml; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: length

<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
   <soap:Header/>
   <soap:Body>
      <GetUserDetails xmlns="http://example.com/">
         <UserId>12345</UserId>
      </GetUserDetails>
   </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>


<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
   <soap:Header/>
   <soap:Body>
      <GetUserDetails xmlns="http://example.com/">
         <Username>Bharath Reddy</Username>
         <Userrole>Senior SDET</Userrole>
      </GetUserDetails>
   </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>


## REST (Representational State Transfer)
RESTful services mainly use JSON format instead of XML To exchange the information between client and server . RESTful services will use different HTTP methods to perform different types of operations like:
- GET ==> GET method will be used to read the existing information from the server. 
- POST ==> POST method will be used to create the new information within the server through API. 
- PUT ==> PUT method will be used to update the complete record within the server through API. 
- PATCH => PATCH method will be used to update a specific part of the information within the record through the API. 
- DELETE  ==> Delete method will be used to delete the information from the server. 

Request: POST api.example.com/users/12345 HTTP/1.1

{
    "empId" : 1234
}

Host: api.example.com
Accept: application/json

Response:
{
   "id": 12345,
   "name": "John Doe",
   "email": "johndoe@example.com"
}

## GRAPHQL
GRAPHQL Is going to allow us to send a request from the client to retrieve the specific data, so it is going to reduce over-fetching and under-fetching of the data. 

POST /graphql HTTP/1.1
Host: api.example.com
Content-Type: application/json

{
   "query": "{ user(id: \12345\) { name, email } }"
}

Response:
{
   "data": {
      "user": {
         "name": "John Doe",
         "email": "johndoe@example.com"
      }
   }
}

## API Testing over REST API 

### Request : request is all about the action performed by the user to access the data from the server. 

### Response : response is all about the output received from the server. 

## Requirements to be collected from our developer to send the AP1 request ?

1. Purpose of API request or functionality of API ?

2. Request type (meaning what kind of request it is):
- GET
- POST
- PUT
- PATCH
- DELETE

3. Request URL Request URL contains three important parts:
   1. Base URL
   2. Endpoint
   3. Path Parameters and Query Parameters

4. Request Body or Payload 
The data that we want to store within the server or the data that you want to update within the server. 
{
   "name": "Bharath",
   "email": "Bharath@test.com"
}

5. Authorization and Authentication 
- Authentication is all about checking " who you are. "
- Authorization is all about " what you are allowed to do. "

There are different authorization mechanisms we can implement while building the API

- No Auth : no authorization required. It means Open API. 
- Basic Auth : basic authorization means accessing the data through a user name and password. 
- API Key : Unique key generated by the developer, along with a unique value that needs to be used to access the information from the server. 
  Example: Jsessionid = 27654fghjkgsdgffkjdfswgkjuihsdkjgewkjg
- Bearer Token or JWT token : Unique key generated by the developer to access the information based on the user roles and permissions, along with an expiry date. 
- OAuth : open Authorization is all about maintaining additional security by adding additional layers. In WoWath, the user is going to get a consumer key and secret along with the access token to generate the temporary bearer token. Through that temporary bearer token, we can access the actual information from the server. 

6. Request Headers : Request Traders are nothing but additional metadata to be shared along with the API request. 
{
  "Content-Type": "application/json",
  "Accept": "application/vnd.github.v3+json",
  "Authorization": "Bearer <YOUR-TOKEN>"
}


## Requirements to be collected from our developer to validate the response ?

1. Response Code / Status Code Validation : response code is all about the unique number generated by the server every time when you are going to send the request. Based on the response code, we can understand the status of the request. 

1XX => Informational Code (100-Processing)
2XX => Symbol of Success ( 200-OK , 201 -Created , 204 - No Content)
3XX => Redirectional Status Code ( temporary redirection or permanent redirection due to a change in the server.)
4XX => Client-side error (401- Unauthorized, 400 - bad request., 404 - not found. , 422 - Unprocessable Entity )
5XX => Server-side error. (500 - Internal Server Error , 502 - Bad Gateway , 503 - service Unavailable, 504 - Gateway Timeout)

2. Response Body Validations

GET https://api.amazon.com/mobiles/iphone16?price<=50000

{
   "mobiles" :{
      "product":"Iphone 16",
      "price": 49999,
      "RAM" : "16Gb"
   }
}

3. Schema of the API response. 
Schema is all about the nature of the data that we are expecting within the response. 
{
"mobiles" : object
"product":string
"price":number
"RAM":string
}

4. Response headers
"session-id" : "dgjhwgfdrwq4352367512"

5. Maximum response time it should take to respond back 
Response Time : 2 Sec

6. Error Validations and Error Handling 
For each and every invalid user request, what kind of error should it display? 



## API TESTING - GITHUB API
Application UI: https://github.com/
API Documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?apiVersion=2026-03-10

Git Account : bharathtechacademy05
GIT TOKEN : Bearer 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
BASE URL : https://api.github.com

URL to Generate Token : https://github.com/settings/tokens/new

## Scenarios :

1. Creating a duplicate repository with valid credentials
2. Creating a valid repository with valid credentials. 
3. Search and get existing repository with valid credentials. 
4. Update the existing repository information with valid credentials. 
5. Delete the existing repository with valid credentials. 

## How to use Postman tool step by step? 

1. Creating the Postman workspace (Workspaces -> Create -> Update workspace name -> Create Workspace)
2. Create or add environment (To store all the configuration-related details ) (Environments -> Create -> Update name -> Create the Environment)
3. Add the API collection (The folder that contains all the API requests related to our application. ) (Collections -> Create -> Update name)
4. Add API request inside the API collection (Hover on the collection -> Click on the action menu -> Add request -> Update request details  )